the US has warned that all of Gaza is
facing starvation Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin made the remarks as he
prepared to head back to the Middle East
he'll meet top officials in Saudi Arabia
and Egypt in the hope of brokering a
ceasefire and ramping up a deliveries to
Gaza there has been growing unease among
Israel's Alli allies about the human
cost of its war against Hamas which
began after the radical islamist group's
terror attack on October the 7th
these children are waiting to receive a
portion of
food being prepared by Volunteers in
Rafa this could be the only meal for
some gazin in
[Applause]
days we have no option but to come here
we're from Gaza City we have no money
and we're living in tents the charity is
providing us with
food as food shortages are becoming more
acute every day the World Health
Organization has accused Israel of
provoking an imminent famine this is
completely man-made and it's it's
avoidable we need more food to come in
simply on one hand because of the
hostilities there is no uh way of
producing food inside Gaza secondly
there is a restricted access simply what
is getting in is is not enough and even
getting things around Gaza is
complicated because of the the level of
destruction of of of
infrastructure along with accusations
that Israel is blocking humanitarian
relief into Gaza Israel denies the claim
blaming eight agencies for the
distribution only a trickle was allowed
to enter Gaza City on Monday
night famine is particularly looming in
the Northern parts of the strip people
there are surviving in makeshift tents
with barely any food a new UN report say
that acute malnutrition is accelerating
here where Secretary of State Anthony
blinken expressed concern about the food
shortages 100% of the population in Gaza
is at severe levels of acute food
insecurity that's the first time an
entire population has been so
classified um we also see again uh
according to in this case the United
Nations 100% the total of the population
is in need of humanitarian assistance in
the midst of Moun calls for an increase
in Aid fears of widespread malnutrition
across the strip are rising as Israel
says it is still preparing to launch a
ground assault in Rafa in the
South Martin Frick is the Germany
director of the un's world food program
here in Berlin and he joins us now
welcome to DW thanks so much for your
time today uh we're hearing is imminent
could you give us a sense of what famine
actually means for the people who
experience
it well that report issued the last
warning and when we are talking about
famine being imminent that means that
people have tried everything to survive
and everything they tried is now
exhausted people are eating Fe F people
are eating grasses everything that is
somewhere available and even that is
exhausted by now this is what famine
means and if not immediately remediated
we will see more particularly children
dying from Hunger in
Gaza a consequence of famine is
long-term growth problems you mentioned
particularly how this is hitting
children so that in effect means doesn't
it that this crisis in Gaza now will be
negatively affecting People's Health
especially Children's Health for decades
to
come that is indeed the case we had
already in December one out of five
children being acutely malnourished this
is now going up to one in three and that
is not a temporary situation a child
that is not receiving enough nutritious
food in the critical time of growing up
risk to be um disabled for a lifetime
shorter than average but but it can also
affect the cognitive abilities of
children what is the world food program
focusing on at the moment in terms of
getting Aid to
Gaza well we are fully prepared to bring
massive amounts of food into Gaza more
than 100 more than a thousand trucks are
standing ready outside Gaza we urgently
need access particularly to the northern
part of Gaza in order to to bring the
enormous quantity of food that are
necessary um now in we also need access
to the port of ashot which is about 30
Mi north of the Gaza Strip on Israeli
territory in order to bring these
quantities of food in most importantly
more access points so we can bring in
the trucks to transport the food that is
so urgently needed now in Gaza can the
worst still be
averted absolutely absolutely but we
need to act immediately and we need to
make sure that the food that stands
ready that the trucks that are ready to
roll in actually can cross the border
checkpoints much faster at a much bigger
quantity and also at border crossing
points in the north that are still
unavailable for humanitarian
transports Martin Frick Germany director
of the un's world food program thank you
so much for your time
today thank
you we can get more from hen beler a
journalist who was based in Gaza in the
first months of the war he's joining us
now from Aman welcome hasm um what are
your sources in Gaza telling you um
about the food crisis right
now the crisis in Gaza is clear um um
that it's very deep um along I mean the
war is ongoing um there is bombardment
there are strikes there um people dying
every day houses are destroyed but along
of that people Ordinary People only and
um um not thinking about the air strikes
but also thinking about the food how to
secure food especially in Ramadan it's
very hard for them to be displaced
intense in a very cold weather um uh
with no food even the type of food is is
is delivered is very hard and it's not
the usual that they used to to consume
before it's more um about canned food um
um barly they have bread barly they have
vegetables even if it was available the
prices is very hard and very high um for
for many people to afford MH do
Palestinians in Gaza believe that the
international pressure that's now being
put on Israel that this will lead to
more land Crossings being opened and and
hopefully more Aid being allowed
in well people in Gaza they're very
desperate and disappointed from all the
parties uh Palestinians International
Arabs and every day that in all reports
you would see that people are blaming
everybody for the crisis that they are
living in they don't think that any
pressure would make any change on their
reality um of course it's important I
would say that the the international
pressure made uh made some food uh to
continue entering Gaza um um um there's
some limitation of types and uh
quantities um there is another crisis
the crisis with the ownera uh the crisis
about the crossings and inspecting and
scanning the the trucks uh at the
Israeli sides um there was a experiment
of allowing some food from uh a gate
between Israel and Gaza STP and um um in
the last last week but um with the air
drops um it's still the crisis is there
but it it helps but people in Gaza
believe that it's not enough MH there
have been reports of Looting of people
being killed while trying to reach uh
Aid deliveries can you describe how
difficult how dangerous it is for gazans
to to try and get their hands on the aid
that does make it into
Gaza as long as there is no no Law and
Order in in Gaza um Israel is um is
destroyed all the entities that um uh
belong to the Law and Order like police
and others uh there was no mechanism uh
uh to distribute the food mainly in the
north that people were very in in in a
brink of of starvation and famine um
they were gathering at um certain points
in um um Kuwaiti roundabout and abuli
roundabout in the the the western side
uh of the city waiting for the trucks to
come in and it's very risky and very
dangerous where the tank Israeli tanks
are so they they jump on the tanks with
with very limited number of flour um um
to get some of them are killed according
to the reports by by by shooting some
with with ramping and and and stepping
up or by uh uh you know uh the the
pushing and and and so people don't
don't know
recently in the recent two days that
there was more organized uh trucks loads
like arrived to certain areas um but
some reports that you know from Gaza
coming that the police police officers
were in charge of of organizing and
secure the trucks were were targeted and
killed Hasam to what extent has the aid
that has reached Gaza via airdrops and
by sea to what extent has that brought
any relief to the people
there well it's it's it's a people in
Gaza believe it's a gure we are talking
about a very limited number of of air
drops uh 200 uh a day in in a place that
in open mouth is and there is a deep
starvation there um um the people in
need of of food for long time and it's
not easy uh for for for everybody it it
dropped in in certain areas is not the
whole people can go and jump and people
rush to the area who be there first who
can get the others wouldn't um as long
as there was no Law and Order in the
area so um who stronger can get so what
about that you know women children sick
people they can't get anything so it
drops wasn't the solution for for the
for the crisis especially in the north
um uh because because of the the uh the
quantities uh the qualities and the way
of people getting
it journalist ham belala reporting from
Aman ham thanks so much for your
insights
there